To begin, thank you. Welcome. In one voice, just reflecting on what our precious teachers
again and again and again and again and again remind us that no matter what is happening
in our lives, sorrow, happiness, boredom, joy, challenge, ease, always coming back to
our motivation is so vital and so important with an open, clear, honest, mindful attention
to what we really hold dear and precious. Connecting with our motivation is so essential
for our practice and our direction and our experience and our ability to benefit ourselves
and others. So just in line with that, just from the very beginning, we'll just all take
a few moments to just connect with our motivation and of course we have our three motivations
as practitioners. We can always refer to our renunciation, our non-attachment that's equal
with our joy and appreciation for our situation, all the freedoms and endowments and beautiful
qualities surrounding us and within us. So our renunciation, our bodhicitta, really truly
thinking of if we can all ourselves and all beings realize our true nature, be free of
all the causes of suffering, know true happiness, equally, expansively, impartially for all beings
including ourselves and with great devotion just really and all and love and closeness
feeling to the lineage, just savoring the sacredness of this very instant.
And so we'll just spend a little bit reflecting upon the teachings and the frameworks that
we have for just like exploring this vast ocean of dharma which is what other than, again,
our own basic nature and becoming more and more aware of that as well as all the ways
in which we're creating disturbance and have wrong understanding of ourselves and others.
And the nundra practice is just renowned for being the essence, the distillation, the embodiment
of all the Buddhist teachings and all the Buddhist practices. That's why our teachers
just really encourage us to really connect with the nundra practices which literally
mean that which has to be there in order to grow the ground we need to grow. And so it's
both the place that we grow from and it's also a container that we can land all of the
empowerments we might receive, transmissions and instructions, all the teachings from basic
Buddhism, Mahayana Buddhism, Vajrayana Buddhism, Dzogchen, they all have a place to land with
our nundra practice. It goes both ways. A place for our study and practice to land and
sink deeper into our heart and then by applying the practice then again it breathes back out
and we can absorb and engage with the Dharma more and more directly and see just and savor
the richness of the profound Dharma. And then of course I thought maybe today since we're
again starting up again just reflect a little bit of the framework through which we make
our formal practice. Our formal practice is a place not necessarily to get away from the
world and abandon the world but it's a place to cultivate the vessel for really absorbing
the teachings into our minds and hearts and cultivating them, giving a beautiful vessel
container, a womb to really kind of touch home base and then bring that, expand that
out into the world off of the cushion and in our days maintaining the atmosphere of
the beautiful sacred Dharma of kindness and bodhicitta. All the Buddhist teachings again
are in the nundra and what's another way we can relate to all the Buddhist teachings is
what I know we've all heard but I think it's just helpful again to remember the three baskets,
the three treasuries, no matter what level of the Buddhist teachings are they all contain
these three treasuries of basic activities, of basic teachings that embody all the Buddhist
teachings and those are the teachings on the Vinaya of Sutra of Abhidharma and then the
trainings the way in which we engage with those teachings are what they're called these
three precious trainings that again we engage with on every level of the path and throughout
all the yanas which is the practice of right conduct, discipline is one, developing our
concentration our ability to concentrate and not be distracted is two and then wisdom,
creating our wisdom which is the most essential part that's what we take refuge in right is
the omniscient wisdom of the Buddha and through that and that great unrelenting kind of compassion
that just naturally pervading everywhere from that great mind of enlightenment and that
deep wisdom and the skillful means to engage ourselves to connect with those practices
which we do through study, through hearing, through thinking about the teachings and then
of course absorbing them into our practice so then I thought to do again just briefly
go over to what are good ways to hold our practice to maintain it and again relating
on these very classical tried and true kind of guidelines so of course making time where
every day we can have time to practice is really so good they can't can't be understated
I think we all know from different experience how good that is when we can maintain but
we need to be realistic with that and so looking at everything else we're doing in our days
are other responsibilities and commitments really seeing where our commitment for our
formal practice is and where we can most constantly maintain that is so important so having
acquired
a part of the day a day we know we can reserve for our own practice no matter what that is
let's say it's an hour you know be great if it's more but an hour is great and of course
classically usually beginning of the day and or the end of the day are kind of perfect
kind of border lines or crossroads between our inner and outer life that we can really
again touch home base so whatever that is but having it be something attainable and
then we have right what are called the three frames or three noble ones we want to always
bring and kind of refer to with our practice and I think we've all heard what those are
beginning middle and so just like we've done today we want to start good in the beginning
but the real heart which means of our practice connecting with our bodhicitta our joy our
appreciation our devotion really connecting with those things setting up the good environment
making offerings you know having a nice shrine to whatever degree of elaborate nature as
an outer representation of the precious you know Buddha Dharma Sangha Guru Deva Dakini
St. Dharmapalas the whole mandala of just totally realized nature unveiled in all of
its glory shining compassion pervading for everyone however that is represented so of
course intrinsic with that is keeping our own the lamp of our own heart open but again
starting with our motivation and so then we usually do those things make a nice environment
but not getting too fussy so we actually sit down and practice so relaxing more contentment
appreciating taking time making the time we have for our practice allow us to really relax
and just stop thinking even for a few minutes you know and then every engagement we are
using is like with joy with appreciation with bodhicitta with joy for mindfulness and for
accumulating you know positive actions that will create vast good results for all beings
so really just starting simply with that good in the beginning which is also classically
the four thoughts that turn the mind which will recite thinking again calling the lama
from afar whenever we think of the Buddha or any or Guru Padma Sambha as embodiment
of all the Buddhas including our own living teacher of this life they're right there with
us it's not so much that we're calling the lama from afar we're kind of waking ourselves
up bringing ourselves out of our own kind of numb stupor to just like appreciate what's
with us right now and feel the living presence of the omniscient guru as Padma Sambha embodiment
of all the Buddhas of the three times and then reflecting on these four thoughts that
turn the mind towards you know away from kind of unrealistic unreliable expectations such
as that things are permanent that nothing really matters as far as our actions you know that
things are going to be forever and that we're independent call these kind of unrealistic
ideas and kind of narrow you know just focusing on our own self in this one little life you
know but kind of expanding our vision by reflecting on these four thoughts you know the precious
precious human birth with all all the situations we're free of all the beautiful conditions
that we're surrounded by and kind of have inherent in us and impermanence how everything
is changing never for even in nanosecond remaining everything's always moving and just reflecting
on the truth of that and looking at all those examples and then the natural cause of law
the the natural law of cause and effect that every action has its effects when the causes
meet conditions then the fruit will come and like we mentioned again what makes all the
differences motivation and outlook you know but that you know everything is connected
in all of our actions have their results and then reflecting on samsara this vast infinite
disguise they're created by just not knowing how things are and then our hopes and fears
related you know based upon that ignorance all the challenges of samsara from the most
subtle anxieties to of course there can be such vast tragic kind of outer experiences
so these four thoughts which turn again kind of soften our heart and mind bring us toward
what's reliable the Buddha the Dharma the Sangha the omniscient mind of wisdom and its
outreaching compassion and all the companions you know that help us to like nurture and
ripen our own Buddha nature that then truly be of benefit to others taking refuge bodhicitta
so now we've entered into the main part of our practice and again I think what we'll
do is I'm going to go over these three frames briefly and then I think we're just going
to go through the nundra and maybe it can make just little commentary as we go but again
I'm not sure who's here but maybe some people are newer or even if we've all been practicing
for years just kind of calling to mind some of the essential instructions and visualizations
to like again usher our own heart and mind towards a direct benefit of the teachings
that will naturally come when we put all these conditions together so we've moved from good
in the beginning which is I you know again renunciation bodhicitta devotion purity view
vision and then connecting with you know our deep trust and closeness feeling with the
Buddha Dharma Sangha and expanding you know our bodhicitta our mind our heart's commitment
to both benefit ourselves and all beings through our practice and activate that through again
these the four boundless the six paramitas which are again embodied within all of our
nundra practice so then we've the main so in this section in this example of the three
nobles we've good in the beginning maintaining that atmosphere of you know contentment joy
appreciation bodhicitta purity vision as we take refuge generate bodhicitta accumulate
merit with the mandala offering purify our obscurations with the vatrasattva practice
and mingle our mind with the omniscient wisdom compassion abilities of the precious unsurpassable
lama and then once we've finished up our main practice then of course the third frame which
is always so essential is dedicating the merit it's like with our bodhicitta aspiration from
now you know until samsara is empty you know or as vast as space there are infinite beings
you know may may our wisdom and compassion be fully ripened swiftly and be of unceasing
benefit for all those beings is our bodhicitta aspiration actualizing them with our study
our contemplation our practice all the bodhisattva trainings you know is our path and then always
so as part of that is always dedicating knowing the inevitability of causes and conditions
of actions and their results you know which are totally driven and empowered more by our
motivation we can always like the buddhist said dedicate the merit dedicate the positive
results of our practice for all these infinite beings which means because the the nature
of our mind the teachings say is infinite without any limits possibilities are endless
the own nature of our mind is vast unimpeded that's why it's so important we really dedicate
the merit and connect with our aspirations and like the buddhist said it's so famous
if we dedicate the merit it's like adding a drop of water to the ocean it will be inexhaustible
whereas if we kind of forget the benefits just evaporate quickly both for ourselves
and for others but here we're recognizing that again with that really vast bodhicitta
motivation as vast as space as infinite as space boundless infinite there are sentient
beings and by this practice you know may may it's may it be the source of nurturing protecting
and bringing benefit to all those infinite beings which means there is no end it is an
infinite source of nurturing and protection and benefit for others so and then of course
with them we can we have all of our other aspiration prayers and these great lineage
prayers from totally realized practitioners we can connect with our mind and heart but
we can also make our own aspirations and connect with our own intentions in the big big picture
and even the small picture and then when we get up off our cushion then we're going to
try to just the other part of our practice is being mindful of our current capacities
and moving you know trying to reflect again with wisdom how everything is illusory and
yet it's all connected so definitely being very careful or like Ken Po Seong-Worbice says
timid with our conduct really acting keeping a big heart big open mind big view but then
also very careful and mindful that we're acting in accordance with our present capacities
and our present abilities and our present knowledge so that's all I'm going to say right
now but then like I said I think as we go through the practice maybe we'll say a little
bit more just reminders around how we're framing each section of the practice okay
so we're going to have just again just thinking again in relation so much of our world has
the reified you know mandala of existence as the mechanical clock so with this sacred
object we're going to make the vessel of our practice now be about an hour of course that's
totally flexible if you have more time in the day great if you have left time that's
fine too but like I said before thinking about becoming being familiar enough with the practice
and here we're talking specifically of the the dudjum turso nundro practice that we kind
of know how we flow through it and there's all kinds of choices of course we're blessed
with that this has come to us through the living lineage of Tibetan Buddhism from these
so precious so great and then this is in the Tibetan language the words of Guru Rinpoche
and dudjum Rinpoche so we we can recite in Tibetan and then also so good most of us we're
speaking in English so saying making sure we're connecting with the meaning as we're
reciting too so I think we'll do a little bit of both today Tibetan and English but
again the most important part while in our practice we have silent meditation wordless
meditation even no meditation with no thought that's a nice idea something we definitely
want to work towards we also have our chanting meditation and our analytical meditation we're
examining reality and putting voice to our aspirations and giving expression to our bodhicitta
and our you know our joy appreciation and devotion so connecting with the meaning as
we're chanting and again thinking about these three trainings we're connecting with a good
heart towards meaningful positive actions that will truly be of benefit for others and
purifying our mistakes and misunderstandings and not aiming to never repeat them setting
up really good conditions you know and engaging with them and then to then on this level of
concentration really definitely says as part of when we begin doing some shamata again just
taking a quick moment back wisdom is so important and then that's why I think definitely Buddha
taught how seeing the law of cause and effect and conduct makes a difference it has its
big influence and concentration developing concentration is so vital and important because
we're so often just distracted and so easily distracted from even what's really important
to us and deeply meaningful for us at times but then here and then bringing out our wisdom
so definitely as spending a little time to do basic shamata at the beginning but also
being gently mindful of keeping with our practice as we're going make just checking in like
how much we're relaxed how much we're in an atmosphere not just a tight thought but an
atmosphere of bodhicitta and appreciation and joy and flow with the practice we'll just
spend a few moments just to use the shamata calm abiding good posture so our our channels
are in nice alignment and our inner our winds are can flow and our mind can settle
in the Zoktion teachings there's these three
beautiful thoughts that really I don't know for me at least they're so helpful in kind
of setting the stage and recognizing the stage
for all of our practice and it's called the three
postures you know of body speech mind so again with good posture we're gonna this beautiful
metaphors all of our senses are like clear crystal still lakes we're not trying to shut
anything out but allowing all of the natural majesty of our body to be supported by the
earth open to the sky you know with this seven-point posture of our achana kind of our three things
we can check in with again that make it help ensure our channels are open and aligned which
naturally makes our winds settle and move more to our central channel and I know so
our mind settles and all of our senses are open not just our eyes but our ears our sense
of smell our sense of taste all the sensations of our body like the Buddha said like you
know dreams magical displays clouds do fire rings dreams you know such we should view
all composite things so that state of openness and clarity just connecting with the doors
of all our senses are open like still lakes
with a mountain like body uncontrived and then just totally sky like mind open into
mind holding everything
and when we rest with the big open mind and heart in this this is nothing but the mandala
of our precious guru the omniscient Buddha it's compassion and so then we'll begin again
with this seven-line prayer and lineage prayers recognizing again not none of this is coming
out of this random chance we all have this beautiful connection with the living lineage
of wisdom compassion that's come to us through this living lineage all the way unbroken all
the way to buddha shakimuni we'll recite the seven-line prayer and lineage prayers and
then go to the calling the lama from afar
to the lama from afar to the lama from afar to the lama from afar to the lama from afar.
And then we'll begin with the satsang.
The satsang is a little bit different from the satsang.
The satsang is a little bit different from the satsang but the satsang is a little bit
different from the satsang.
The satsang is a little bit different from the satsang.
The satsang is a little bit different from the satsang but the satsang is a little bit
different from the satsang.
The satsang is a little bit different from the satsang.
The satsang is a little bit different from the satsang but the satsang is a little bit
different from the satsang.
The satsang is a little bit different from the satsang.
The satsang is a little bit different from the satsang but the satsang is a little bit
different from the satsang but the satsang is a little bit different from the satsang
but the satsang is a little bit different from the satsang but the satsang is a little bit
but the satsang is a little bit different from the satsang but the satsang is a little
bit different from the satsang but the satsang is a little bit different from the satsang
but the satsang is a little bit different from the satsang but the satsang is a little bit
different from the satsang but the satsang is a little bit different from the satsang
but the satsang is a little bit different from the satsang but the satsang is a little
bit different from the satsang but the satsang is a little bit different from the satsang
but letting go in the free natural flow of uncontrived awareness not holding whatever
arises the blessings of self liberation are obtained through fabricated practice there
is no time to achieve enlightenment this meditation produced through mental analysis and intellect
is a deceiving enemy now conceptualization falls apart with the abandon of a madman let
this life be spent in a state of uninhibited naked ease whatever one does joyful practitioner
of the great perfection in any company happy lineage holder of the lotus-born protector
without rival great treasure revealing lama teachings beyond compare heart essence of
the dakinis having dispelled the heart's darkness great ignorance in its own place
the undiminished son of luminous clarity shines continuously this good fortune is the kindness
of the llama the only father unrepayable kindness only remember the llama unrepayable kindness
only remember the llama unrepayable kindness only remember the llama
big open seeing heart reflect on these four thoughts
namulu metin ji kum po lama chin tajodini shindu niparka cetze mvita chiwetu chen yin
kedig lechi judre luwamit kamsum kurwa dukna jamsuna drennedag lochula jurwa shul namulu
lama infallible constant protector be aware of me the freedoms and favorable conditions
of this human birth are extremely difficult to obtain everything born is impermanent and
bound to die the results of virtuous and unvirtuous actions which are causes are inexorable the
three realms of cyclic existence of the nature of an ocean of suffering remembering this
may my mind turn towards the dharma namulu lama infallible constant protector be aware
of me the freedoms and the favorable conditions of this human birth are extremely difficult
to obtain everything born is impermanent and bound to die the results of virtuous and unvirtuous
actions which are causes are inexorable the three realms of cyclic existence have the
nature of an ocean of suffering remembering this may my mind turn towards the dharma namulu
lama infallible constant protector be aware of me the freedoms and favorable conditions
of this human birth are extremely difficult to obtain everything born is impermanent and
bound to die the results of virtuous and unvirtuous actions which are causes are inexorable the
three realms of cyclic existence have the nature of the ocean of suffering remembering this
may my mind turn towards the dharma
now welcome to the section of beginning the actual nundra practices which is the first
the doorway to all the buddhist practice is taking refuge so again just with a mind and
heart of joy devotion courage commitment reflecting on the qualities and the different meanings
of the buddha dharma sangha all embodied as the lama
so every outer inner secret level of kind of meaning that we can know reflecting on that
and then the visualization is then you know before us is the refuge tree like growing out of
onto this beautiful jewel encrusted lotus stem blooming in full bloom before us is a precious
origin padmasambhava you know all so majestic shining smiling looking directly to our
heart of hearts and with equally with all beings and then above gurampashe all the masters of the
lineage you know from samantabhadra kind of showering down and then you know to the left and right
of
of guru padmasambhava all the buddhas of this fortunate aeon and all you know and all the
buddhas and bodhisattvas on all the our hearts and eight great bodhisattvas and all the sanghas
and behind you know all the self-reciting mounds of all the oceans of of the dharma text
self-resounding and then all of the the deities and dakinis and dharma palas before and then
we're standing just before that embodiment of gurampashe and all the the dharma and the true
nature and then to our our right and left the mother and father of this life are with us
and then before us all the infinite beings of samsara and then in one voice reflecting on the
qualities of the buddha dharma sangha embodied as the lama and we take refuge until we are set
again
with that joy and confidence that by doing that we ourselves can be an object of refuge
and truly be a benefit you know for ourselves mature our own minds free our own you know free
ourselves from our our misunderstanding and find true peace and then through that being the source
of the same for all the infinite beings but truly being able so we'll do you know holding
that meditation and again with our body our speech and mind we're going to take revisit our refuge
vow so we'll do that a few times just sitting and then we'll get up and then before about five
minutes we'll all do prostrations before the shrine
from now until attaining the heart of enlightenment i take refuge in the llama the three jewels
and then again just everyone get up and in your own way we'll we'll do prostrations
with the refuge prayer holding the meditation for about five minutes
from now till attaining the heart of enlightenment i take refuge in the llama the three jewels
from now until attaining the heart of enlightenment
from
now
um
from now until attaining the heart of enlightenment
i take refuge in the llama the three jewels
now until attaining the heart of enlightenment i take refuge in the llama the three jewels
from now until attaining the heart of enlightenment i take refuge in the llama the three jewels
we can kind of conclude that with the taking refuge in the ultimate sense so then you know
a visualization we can do to just let go and release is then you know we can all of you know
the beings of the six realms and our mother and father of this life just all alight and just
instantly just flock all up and settle into all the the refuge tree you know mingling
at one with all the objects of refuge and then all those objects of refuge surrounding guru
padmasambhava all mingle and become one with his body and then him you know smiling again to each
one of us then we like a shooting star just shoot shoot right up into the heart center of guru
padmasambhava and then just again resting our mind guru padmasambhava dissolves and we dissolve
just
mingling in that one space of openness and clarity and compassion
so
now instantly we're reappearing and again before us is guru padmasambhava and all
the objects of refuge you know bearing witness upon again we're reconnecting with our bodhichitta
aspiration and our commitment and our joy encourage commitment for actualizing the bodhichitta
which
is to become fully awakened for the benefit of beings being and again connecting with our four
boundless aspirations and with the commitment to totally apply mindfully joyfully as steadily as
possible all the six parameters are based on wisdom
from now until some sorrow becomes empty i shall accomplish the benefits and happiness
of all sentient parent beings from now until some sorrow becomes empty i shall accomplish
the benefits and happiness of all sentient parent beings from now until some sorrow becomes empty
i shall accomplish the benefits and happiness of all sentient parent beings
maintaining the meditation and we'll all go at our own pace reciting this bodhichitta vows
so
now until some sorrow becomes empty
from now until some sorrow
from now until some sorrow becomes empty
i shall accomplish the benefits and happiness of all sentient parent beings
i shall just rest in the ultimate bodhichitta, absolute bodhichitta
the white light from our heart shining to all the infinite beings
and then we can just relax our mind with the essence bodhichitta
and again with our mind's own openness, clarity, compassion
just all pervading rest in that ocean
fully open for all beings
you can see the light from our heart shining to all the infinite beings
and now we'll connect with the mandala offering the accumulation of merit
again assembling if you have the actual mandala plate with some offerings of grains and jewels or
whatever
of course you can offer that and then those of us who don't we can make the mandala mudra
again what are we doing? Before us again is guru padmasambhava embodiment of all the objects of
refuge
that is to say the whole mandala of enlightened blessings and realization and enlightened
activities
all pervading fully ripened awakened state is the mandala of guru padmasambhava
is the object of refuge mandala and what are we doing? We're accumulating merit
as we accumulate our wisdom here with just this supremely powerful skillful means practice
we're offering this representation of the universe which is to say just like we say
we're offering all with our joy our devotion our bodhicitta we're offering all and every experience
we'll ever have
to the realization of the and activities and benefit you know with joy to the three jewels
which means it's intrinsically for the benefit of all beings
the bodies enjoyments possessions and glories of the succession of all my lifetimes I offer to the
three jewels in order to complete the two accumulations
and glories of the succession of all my lifetimes I offer to the three jewels in order to complete
the two accumulations
in order to complete the two accumulations in order to complete the two accumulations in order to
complete the two accumulations
in order to complete the two accumulations in order to complete the two accumulations
in order to complete the two accumulations in order to complete the two accumulations in order to
complete the two accumulations
in order to complete the two accumulations in order to complete the two accumulations
the bodies enjoyments possessions and glories of the succession of all my lifetimes I offer to the
three jewels in order to complete the two accumulations
I offer to the three jewels in order to complete the two accumulations in order to complete the two
accumulations in order to complete the two accumulations
in order to complete the two accumulations in order to complete the two accumulations in order to
complete the two accumulations
I will engage with the fourth section the purification of our obscurations
with the profound meditation of Vajrasattva, Vajrasattva's embodiment of the fully awakened indest
ructible fully omniscient lama of this life
and then again, like Duryama Vichai said, the path is 99% removing our obscurations and the causes
of our obscurations
again I might be using terms we're not familiar with but we've gone over them and I'm sure we will
in the future but using the four powers
just essentially bathing in the nectar stream of Vajrasattva inseparable from the lama and we can
just let that nectar stream flow through
cleanse all of our channels and winds, clear off all of our karmic connections, purify everyone
into the fully enlightened state
and just as we're going to whatever degree we can just reflect on with remorse and the wish to not
repeat and again connecting with our true motivation
and our bodhicitta and devotion and courage recognize our mistakes as mistakes both ones we know
and of course all of those we don't
especially just the fundamental or fundamental ignorance and all the mistakes we've made upon after
them
above one's head is Vajrasattva inseparable from the lama from Vajrasattva's body and nectar stream
descends purifying one's obscurations
and all of our nectar stream descends purify everyone into the fully enlightened state and the n
ectar stream descends purify everyone into the fully enlightened state and the nectar stream desc
ends purify everyone into the fully enlightened state
above one's head is Vajrasattva's body and the nectar stream descends purify everyone into the
fully enlightened state and the nectar stream descends purify everyone into the fully enlightened
state
(singing in foreign language)
(gentle music)
- Now we move on to the fifth section,
really the core essence of all of the practice,
inseparable from everything, all bodhicitta,
all mandalas, all purification, all fully ripening,
swiftly penetrating blessings of the guru yoga.
So now, again, just briefly, the visualization.
We ourselves now are Vajrayogini,
the supreme student, perfect student, Yeshe Sojal.
So we are Yeshe Sojal, and before us, again,
is the living guru Patmasambhava,
and then we'll make with a heartfelt aspirations
and joy, devotion, bodhicitta,
we'll recite this supplication,
and then do the actual guru yoga,
reciting the Vajra Guru mantra,
letting that circulate throughout all our winds
and channels and all the universe,
receiving all the blessings and blessing lights,
all the empowerments from guru Patmasambhava,
purify all our obscurations and fully ripen in
our own tatagatagarva, our own Buddha nature,
to its full bloom, three kaya state of purity.
(singing in foreign language)
One's self is Vajrayogini, and in the sky in front,
the root teacher manifests in the form of Patmasambhava.
(singing in foreign language)
The embodiment of all the Buddhas of the three times,
without exception.
Most excellent root teacher, I pray to you.
In this and future lives, and in the Bardo,
in these three, hold me with your compassion.
Bless me ceaselessly throughout the three times.
The embodiment of all the Buddhas of the three times,
without exception.
Most excellent root teacher, I pray to you.
In this and future lives, and in the Bardo,
in these three, hold me with your compassion.
Bless me ceaselessly throughout the three times.
The embodiment of all the Buddhas of the three times,
without exception.
Most excellent root teacher, I pray to you.
In this and future lives, and in the Bardo,
in these three, hold me with your compassion.
Bless me ceaselessly throughout the three times.
(singing in foreign language)
- Oh man.
- The blessings and empowerment of body, speech, and mind
are completely and perfectly obtained.
(singing in foreign language)
- The lama dissolves into light, is absorbed into one's self,
and becomes inseparable with one's own state of being.
Behold the emptiness, awareness, the true face of the lama.
(singing in foreign language)
- Quickly do these two additional sections of the lundra.
Poa, aspiration, connecting with all the good causes
for taking rebirth in Dehvachen,
and then the true, the charity of the body,
the dedication of all of our virtue.
(singing in foreign language)
- I pray to the protector Amitabha,
the Buddha of limitless light.
Grant me the blessing to become accomplished
in the profound path of Poa.
I pray to the protector Amitabha,
the Buddha of limitless light.
Grant me the blessing to become accomplished
in the profound path of Poa.
I pray to the protector Amitabha,
the Buddha of limitless light.
Grant me the blessing to become accomplished
in the profound path of Poa.
And now this seventh.
(singing in foreign language)
Now my body, possessions, and the source of my virtue
all together, I give without clinging
to all beings who have been my parents.
May I accomplish great benefits unobstructedly
for all beings.
Now my body, possessions, and the source of my virtue
all together, I give without clinging
to all beings who have been my parents.
May I accomplish great benefits unobstructedly
for all beings.
Now my body, possessions, and the source of my virtue
all together, I give without clinging
to all beings who have been my parents.
May I accomplish great benefits unobstructedly
for all beings.
So that concludes the main part of our practice.
And now we'll do the third noble one.
Dedicate merit, make vast aspiration prayers,
and seal our practice with that.
Again, just like we started with our joy,
appreciation, bodhicitta, devotion,
kind of purity, understanding, the three vatras state.
And then we'll begin with these long life prayers
for our teacher.
And then if you have it, we've been reciting
this prayer for the swift return
of (speaking in foreign language)
This is a concise prayer written
by (speaking in foreign language)
So if you have that, we'll recite this
and then continue.
So in our daily prayers, we'll begin on 29.
But first we'll say this prayer,
swift return prayer.
(singing in foreign language)
His Holiness, Dalai Lama, 29.
26.
(singing in foreign language)
28.
And then continuing page 32.
By this merit, may all obtain omniscience.
May it defeat the enemy wrongdoing.
From the stormy waves of birth, old age, sickness, and death.
From the ocean of samsara, may I free all beings.
May the sole source of benefit and happiness,
the Buddhist teachings remain for a long time.
And may the victory banner of the lives of the noble ones,
the holders of the teachings remain firm.
May all the temples and monasteries,
all the readings and recitations of Dharma flourish.
May the Sangha always be in harmony,
and may our aspirations be achieved.
The sole remedy for the suffering of sentient beings,
the source of every joy is the teaching.
May it remain honorably upheld and flourish for a long time.
May all the numberless beings who are sick
be quickly freed from sickness.
May all the afflictions of sentient beings
never again arise.
May all sentient beings always be joyful.
May all births into the lower realms cease forever.
May the wishes of all the bodhisattvas and all the boonies
swiftly reach fruition.
At this very moment, the peoples and nations of the earth
may not even the names disease, famine, war, and suffering
be heard, but rather may pure conduct, merit, wealth,
and prosperity increase.
And may supreme good fortune and well-being always arise.
The precious bodhicitta, it is without it, may it be generated.
And those who have it may it never diminish,
but always continue increasing.
Throughout the succession of lives into which I shall be born,
may I attain the seven qualities of the upper realms
of existence.
May I meet the Dharma immediately after taking birth,
and have the freedom to practice accordingly.
May I please the holy lamas and practice Dharma day and night
by understanding the Dharma and practicing its inmost essence.
In that life may I cross the ocean of samsara.
In samsara may I expound the excellent holy doctrine.
May I not become bored and tired of accomplishing
the benefit of others by my own tremendous impartial service
to others.
May everyone attain Buddhahood together.
May the lotus feet of the guru who glorifies the teachings
be firm, and the noble ones who hold the teachings encompass
the earth.
May the prosperity and dominion of the patrons of the teachings
increase, and may the teachings auspiciously
remain for a long time.
May the secret treasures of all the victorious ones,
their incomparably supreme teachings,
arise as the sun in the sky, gloriously
pervading the entire universe, an active essence of all
the teachings of the victorious one,
great charioteer of the secret Vajrayana teachings
of the early translation school, emanation of nupchinsanjayeshe,
great tirtansasam lingpa, may a profound treasure
pervade the entire world.
May the soul swift path of all the Buddhas,
the supreme vehicle, the great perfection, unanimously praised
by all the victorious ones, the early translation school
tradition of the king of the victorious ones,
Padmasambhava, the conqueror's doctrine pervade auspiciously
throughout all directions.
May the great tradition of kenpo shantarakshita,
lopampadmasambhava, and dharmakim, treesan, detsan, increase
and spread throughout the three round world.
May the appearance of the three jewels and the mind streams
of beings remain inseparable and bring sublime well-being
throughout the three times.
Deity, mantra, and dharmakaya are the nature
of appearance, sound, and awareness.
The pervasive kaya and wisdom display of the Buddhas.
May practitioners of the profound and secret great perfection
remain inseparable from the innermost one taste
awareness of wisdom mind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Thank you again, everyone coming together,
really making our teachers have given us
such amazingly precious opportunity and places
for study and practice and such a rich body of teachings
to really absorb into our heart.
So thank you coming together.
And again, my apologies.
Our vessel of an hour kind of overflowed over the brim
to a little longer.
So hope that only goes to nourish the night.
And we'll meet again.
Like I said, the next three Saturdays, we'll meet.
And then Kempo Sayon-Wampushe will be leading the winter
Zogchen retreat from our Pemeling retreat center in Florida.
So this is going to be an on-site winter retreat.
And last year, due to our dear precious Sangha brother,
Tim Tavis, and so many other Sangha members coming together,
we're able to have the certificate of occupancy.
And so now we'll be having the full winter
retreat at Pemeling this year.
So that's January 14 to 21.
And you probably heard about it, but you can definitely
find more information on the website, padmasambhava.org/events.
And Pashe is giving the empowerment
of the vidyadhara-lama, which is a precious term from sasum
lingpa.
And just thought to say, too, I mean, of course,
any empowerment, especially of padmasambhava, is so special.
And then this is a very unique one
from our really precious lineage of sasum lingpa.
And then also, when we continue with our practice, of course,
we always maintain our nundra practice.
And please maintain that.
And then also, as some of you may know,
when we complete our formal accumulations,
then we also move on to our three-roots practices.
So this practice of guru padmasambhava
is one of the real essential ones
that we in this Sangha practice during our three-roots
accumulations.
So if you've started that and need the empowerment
and/or transmission, Rinpoche will
be giving that on that Sunday, the 15th.
And then the main Zokchen teachings for the week
will be from another teaching on the view, meditation, conduct
of Zokchen practice.
Thank you.
Have a good night.
Hopefully, see you next week.
Thank you.